# Why did I make this?
In development of my Wolfenstein 3D mod, awes145's Mission Pack, I wanted to see if I could take what I learned from my experience modding there and make a game.
Thus, Choices came to light. It was either this or a full C rewrite of LFTools, which I guess I had a little bit of an internal struggle with because I wanted something simple to start off with and not jump knee-deep into something that would perplex me.
# Thought process behind Choices
Failing to meet my requirement of making a properly difficult game, (as seen with the "awes145's Mission Pack" 1.x versions) I really wanted to give people something to talk about. This is where I came up with the rule of Choices: 3 choices 20 times. The name fully came to light as I thought of the rule.
# Why C?
I saw Choices as sort of a prerequisite to making a rewrite. If I could successfully make a game or program, then I could take a jab at making a rewrite of LFTools.
Not only that, but C was what was I was learning at the time... through looking at the source code of Wolfenstein 3D. I felt pretty confident about it.
Someone called my learning technique a "cruel and unusual method of learning the language". Come to think of it, she might've been right. Oh well, it worked for me anyway, so I can't complain.
# Porting
The first port I made for Choices was the DOS version. I wanted wide compatibility for Choices to see if I could do it. During that time, I also found one of my old iPhones. So, about a month later, I decided to port it to iPhoneOS. It was difficult, nonetheless... I had to go out of my way to compile libraries from the LLVM project to make it work. Surprisingly, the old iPhones lacked division and modulo ops! It originally made me wonder why my executable was crashing until I found out that it wanted those functions.
Compilation tricks later, I got an armv7 executable that worked on my iPhone 3GS. I also had an iPhone 3G but I was burnt out from going all around the place to make the thing happen that I gave up on that... for like a day. The next morning I compiled an armv6 binary. Part of my pain came from the executable just refusing to start on higher iOS versions. Found out that I needed to "sign" my stuff. So I did that and made it into a fat binary. The iPhoneOS version was finally complete!

Then came the real challenge...
The day I released Choices v1.1, I wanted to make a Wii port. I had no direction, so I gave up on it. Then a month later, I picked it back up again after someone brought it up again. Someone with a name that contained a notorious character from XBOX era... Anyway, I set up devkitPro on my main PC and started shoving random crap in my code. I had a template Hello World program so I based it off that. I also had to assign the choices to buttons instead of a keyboard. Specifically, A, 1, and 2. Thankfully unlike the old iPhones, PowerPC had those operations, so I compiled and finished the port. When that was done, that same guy also suggested a GBA port. So I got to work on that as well, first starting with setup and button assignments. Kinda like the Wii one, but less stressful.

Then a problem arose. How Choices worked is that it seeded the randomness off of time. The GBA does NOT have a real-time clock. I found out the hard way when the same set of choices were generating each time. Eventually I made a debug function to just output the choices to the screen. They were the same with each generation and reset, so I eventually switched over to a ticker-based seed. It seeded itself each time it was looped, so I was able to get randomness each time I did the generation. Finally, the GBA port was complete. The 3DS port was also easy to make.
# Why did you pick "The Alibi" as the music for the Wii version of Choices?
I found that there were MOD libraries for the Wii. I implemented those into Choices. Then I had a bit of a predicament. Yeah, I did have a lot of ProTracker modules, but those ones didn't have as much "charm" as the ones that real people made for the Amiga demoscene.
It was when I remembered that JackfeldSeinfeld had a module in WolfenDOOM Project 9 set for one of the maps that I helped him create. That one being "The Alibi". I liked "Addiction" as well, but I leaned more toward "The Alibi" simply because there wasn't any other Wii homebrew you could hear it in. (Addiction being the BGM in the Open Shop Channel)
...I also just liked how it sounded.